Source code: For several reasons, the source code will not be made public. If necessary, please contact me via email.

Using deep learning CNN LSTM to detect APT attack

Advanced persistent threat (APT) attack is a malicious attack type which has intentional and clear targets. This attack technique has become a challenge for information security systems of organizations, governments, and businesses. The approaches of using machine learning or deep learning algorithms to analyze signs and abnormal behaviors of network traffic for detecting and preventing APT attacks have become popular in recent years. However, the APT attack detection approach that uses behavior analysis and evaluation techniques is facing many difficulties due to the lack of typical data of attack campaigns. To handle this situation, recent studies have selected and extracted the APT attack behaviors which based on datasets are built from experimental tools. Consequently, these properties are few and difficult to obtain in practical monitoring systems. Therefore, although the experimental results show good detection, it does not bring high efficiency in practice. For above reasons, in this project, a new method based on network traffic analysis using a combined deep learning model to detect APT attacks will be proposed. Specifically, individual deep learning networks such as convolutional neural network (CNN), and long short-term memory (LSTM) will also be sought, built and linked into combined deep learning networks to analyze and detect signs of APT attacks in network traffic. In the experimental section, combined deep learning models proved their superior abilities to ensure accuracy on all measurements from 93 to 98%. This is a very good result for APT attack detection based on network traffic.
